USEID-664: Add ADR for branch names and commit msg (#139)
digitalservicebund/useid-backend-service: doc/adr/0014-branch-names-and-commit-messages.md

# 14. Branch names and commit messages

Date: 2022-11-28

## Status

Accepted

## Context

> The tasks of this project need to be distributed over the actively working employees of DigitalService. But when many people work concurrently on different tasks of a project in git, there might be a lot of commits and branches, so one could lose overview.

Reviewer: Since this working agreement is initiated in our team, I guess it's not `employees of DigitalService` but rather team members?

Developers tend to have their own way of writing git messages, so there is a risk of chaos in a git history.

## Decision

The project tasks are organized via tickets with an unique number.

### Branch names

- If a ticket is available, prefix branch names with "USEID-" and the ticket number.
- After the ticket number, add a short description (e.g. ticket name) in snake_case.

> Example: `USEID-123_my_new_feature`

### Commit messages

- If the changes of a commit are described by a ticket, prefix the commit message with "USEID-" and the ticket number.
- If there is no ticket (e.g. hotfixes or external contributions), use "NO-TICKET" as prefix.
- After the prefix, followed by a colon, describe the changes.
- The change description is written in the present (not past present), starting with a verb and a capital first letter.

> Examples: `USEID-123: Implement new feature` or `NO-TICKET: Fix DB connection`

## Consequences

> The git history becomes clearer with consistency throughout the commit messages. Everyone looking at the commit messages, can easily get the content because of the same structure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The git history becomes clearer with a consistent structural pattern throughout the commit messages, which greatly increases readability and general understanding. 
```

> The changes of commits can easily be connected to a ticket to get more context.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The purpose of each commit is easily understandable and can immediately be connected to the associated ticket by looking at the number. 
```

> Looking at the current development, branches can be mapped to tickets as well, and the status can be checked in the ticket system.

Reviewer 2: Would leave this last sentence out.
